[Bear phone]
Kuma, kuma, kuma, ku‐‐
[YUNA]
Hello, Fina? It's me.
I can hear you!
Wow, this is amazing!
It's crazy how the bear bone
lets us communicate
even if we're so far apart.
[YUNA] It's a bear phone,
not a bone, silly.
Why are you so surprised?
We tested the phones
a bunch before I left.
Well, it's still exciting to me.
Um, is everything all right
on your end of things?
[YUNA]
Yep.
Oh, except I'm kind of in a
snowstorm, but it's no biggie.
[FINA]
Really? You must be freezing!
Please don't get
sick or anything.
Don't be such a worry wart.
I've got my awesome bear
equipment, remember?
Plus, Kumayuru and Kumakyu
are traveling with me,
so we're all set.
When you put all that together,
crossing this mountain is
bear‐ly even a challenge!
[FINA] Okay. Kumayuru!
Kumakyu! Come this way!
You can do it!
[BOTH]
Kuma!
Come to me!
Oh, awesome! I didn't know
you could change your size.
You're so small n' cute!
[FINA giggles]
[YUNA]
Oh, now I get it.
I was transported to this
world for the sole purpose
of witnessing
this adorable scene!
And it's all thanks to my
time in the Royal Capital.
I leveled up while I was there
and got some sweet new skills.
On top of that, I connected with
a lot of interesting people.
I bought a ton of
rare ingredients
and hired some new chefs
so I could finally open a
restaurant like everyone wanted.
Awesome. Life in this
world is finally perfect.
I've managed to obtain my
every single desire‐‐not!
[GROUP gasps]
It's just so unfair.
The capital let me down!
There was no rice,
or miso, or soy sauce.
I was at least thinking I'd find
some good seafood, but no luck!
They only had
lame freshwater fish.
I want it.
Tuna sashimi, fried shrimp,
mackerel soaked in miso,
grilled saury, and
dried horse mackerel!
[FINA] What's wrong?
Is your tummy hurting?
You're so sweet, Fina. I'm okay.
My stomach doesn't hurt‐‐
it just feels sad.
[FINA]
Hm?
[YUNA]
Hm? That reminds me.
Didn't we talk about the ocean
when you and Shuri
stayed the night?
Uh, yep.
Wait, that's it.
This is the same problem
I had with the eggs before.
If it's not being
sold around here,
then I just need to buy it
directly from the source!
I've got me a date with destiny.
[door opens, closes]
[MILAINE]
A port town?
Yes, ma'am. Right here.
[YUNA] For real? No way!
It's super close to Crimonia!
The town's called Mileela.
And it has a prosperous fishing
industry, but that's about it.
And does our city
ever trade with them?
Oh, no, that's impossible.
Take a look at this.
The Elezent mountains
block any trade routes.
They're hard to climb,
so that's why we don't
interact with Mileela.
And technically, they're not
even a part of this kingdom.
To be honest, we only get
occasional information
about them from other
traveling adventurers.
Sounds like it's
completely isolated, then.
[YUNA]
Even if it's a tough route,
I could probably do it
with my Bear Summons
and special equipment.
[MILAINE]
Seafood is a particularly
attractive trade item.
So naturally, we would be
happy to do business with them.
Wait, are you asking because...?
[YUNA] Mm‐hm. I was
thinking about going there.
[YUNA] Plus, if I set
up a transfer gate,
then I'd only need to
cross the mountains one time.
[MILAINE giggles]
It's just like with the eggs.
You act like it doesn't matter,
but you're
surprisingly proactive
when you wanna be, Yuna.
Of course, after all I do hail
from a country of foodies!
[MILAINE]
Huh?
[YUNA]
That's right!
Japanese people have been
food adventurers since forever,
with the ability to even make
poisonous fish taste delicious!
No way is some
stupid, snowy mountain
gonna get in between me
and my beloved seafood!
[FINA]
Sorry, what?
Oh, nothing!
I'm sorry about that.
Just thinking out loud.
Anyway, I promise you there's
nothing to worry about.
[FINA]
Yeah, that's true.
It is you we're
talking about after all.
[KUMAYURU grunts]
[YUNA]
What's wrong, Kumayuru?
[YUNA gasps]
Wait, are those people?
Way out here?
[FINA]
Everything okay?
Uh, I'm sorry, but I'll
call you back later, 'kay?
Wow, we really can't
thank you enough.
My name's Damon,
and I'm a fisherman
from the city of Mileela.
You fish, bro?
I'm his wife, Yuula.
We're grateful for
your help, Miss Yuna.
And I'm grateful
for your cute bears.
There have been a lot
of surprises today.
Starting with your
bears finding us.
And ending with you pulling
an entire house of
that tiny item bag.
[YUNA] I get that,
but I'd prefer not to
go into the
details of my skills.
[DAMON] Of course, you saved our
lives and that's what matters.
So what were you
two doing in the
middle of the mountains
in the first place?
Well, we were trying
to travel to Crimonia
in order to buy some
food and supplies.
But we weren't prepared
for such terrible weather.
You're saying you crossed
the mountains just to buy food?
But I thought
Mileela was known for
its thriving fishing industry.
We were... until
about a month ago.
You see, that's
when a giant kraken
appeared right outside the city.
Krakens.
That's what they call those big
squid monster things, right?
[DAMON] Yes, it's made
a nest near our coast
and attacks any boat that
dares to come anywhere near it.
Meaning none of our boats
can leave or return.
And since we can't fish,
we've been unable to
trade with nearby towns,
and our city is facing
a terrible food shortage.
But why go through
the mountains?
Isn't there a safer coastal road
that you could take instead?
Yes, the kraken isn't
our only problem.
You see, a band of thieves
have blocked that route,
and they'll attack anyone
who tries to use it.
We can't even
escape our own town,
much less procure more food.
We're desperate.
Then what about your
adventurers? Can't they fight?
[DAMON] We had some skilled
ones, but they left early on.
And the few that
stayed behind, well...
[YUNA]
Could the kingdom help?
No, I suppose not.
Milaine said they're
not part of the kingdom,
so I doubt they'd use
their own tax money
to save anyone from Mileela.
Their land and sea
routes are blocked.
The kingdom and
adventurers are a bust.
This doesn't look good.
[sighs] Guess I'm out of luck.
I was really hoping I would
get to eat some seafood
at the end of this trip.
Does that mean you'll
return to Crimonia?
Nah. I've already come this far,
so I might as well finish
the journey and go to Mileela.
[YUNA] Plus, I gotta
set up the transfer gate.
[DAMON grunts]
All right.
If you're going to
continue on your quest,
then will you please
take us with you?
Huh?
[DAMON] Even if we do manage
to make it to Crimonia,
I highly doubt that we'll
make it back to Mileela
without any help.
[YUULA] And there's
no point in buying food
if we don't make it back alive
to see our children again.
[DAMON]
We'll pay you for your trouble.
[YUNA]
No need, it's on the way.
[YUNA gasps]
The ocean!
It's so beautiful
and normal looking!
[YUULA]
Yep, that's Mileela.
[YUNA] Nobody's making comments
about how weird my clothes are?
Man, things must be bad here.
It's usually much busier.
Like, before the kraken arrived,
there were food stalls
and shops galore.
Yeah, back when I could go out
and fish every single day.
[GUILDSMAN 10A] This is what
we have in stock for today!
All right! Gimme
all your wolf meat!
I'd like three fish!
Actually, make it two.
Uh, please calm down!
I can only sell what we have.
That's good, looks like
there's still food for sale.
Yes. A small group of local
fishermen and adventurers
have been sneaking around
the kraken and thieves
to gather as much
food as they're able.
But...
[TOWNSMAN 10A] You kidding?
Twenty silvers for just this?!
It's practically nothing!
What's with the price gouging?
[GUILDSMAN 10A]
Sorry, it's not my decision.
Really?
That's over ten times what they
charge for meat in Crimonia.
No wonder everyone's
so frustrated.
That's a total rip off.
[ZARRAD] If that's how
you feel, then don't buy it!
You all know that there's not
much food available right now.
Yet you would dare put
a price on the lives
of the people who risked their
safety to help feed everyone?
If you want my opinion,
20 silvers is nothing
when those people are putting
their lives on the line.
If you don't like the prices.
Then feel free to go
do your own hunting!
[TOWNSPEOPLE mutter]
Who's that guy?
[YUULA] Oh, that's the guild
master of the merchant's guild.
Technically, he's in charge of
distributing the town's food.
But he also sets
the prices for the food
that the adventurers collect.
Unfortunately, they're so high
that hardly anyone
here can afford it.
I mean, he's a merchant,
so I get that he
has to make a profit.
But I can also understand
why everyone's so angry.
Right. We either pay
the prices or starve.
‐‐[BROTHER 10A] Father! Mother!
‐‐[SISTER 10A] Father! Mother!
I tried to tell you it was
impossible to cross the
mountains on your own!
You have no idea
how worried we were!
Sorry, kids.
Please forgive us.
We weren't able to bring
you guys any food either.
It's okay, Mother!
And honestly, I'm not
even that hungry right now!
[stomach rumbles]
[SISTER 10A]
Really?
[BROTHER 10A]
Sorry, I can't help it.
C'mon, you have to
do better than that.
[BROTHER 10A]
I'm trying.
I'm so sorry, children!
If I could, I'd let you both
eat until you were stuffed.
It's fine! I swear
I'm not hungry!
Same here! Besides, what's
the point of having food
if we can't enjoy it
with our parents?
[DAMON cries]
I'm sorry!
[GROUP cries]
[YUNA]
This again.
Guess I'm destined to always
find the people who need help.
[GROUP gasps]
[YUNA] That should do it.
If you want to thank me,
just point me in the direction
of the adventurer's guild,
oh, and a good inn, too, please.
[ATOLA] Well, well, what
a cute little bear you are.
Uh, sorry, is this
an adult establishment?
[ATOLA giggles] Nope, welcome
to the adventurer's guild.
I'm the guild
master here, Atola.
Nice to meetcha,
little miss bear.
[YUNA]
Seriously?
Sorry to be the
bearer of bad news,
but we're far too busy to accept
any new requests right now.
[sighs] Since when does
drinking count as being busy?
[ATOLA giggles]
[sighs]
You know what, forget it.
Look, I didn't come
here to put in a request.
I'd like to make a donation
of wolf meat to the town.
Wait, hold on. You hunt?
Well, of course,
I'm an adventurer.
[laughs] How do you say
that with a straight face?
I'm sorry to laugh,
but you gotta admit
that's a pretty tall tale.
And I would know
if there was such
a cutely dressed
adventurer in this guild.
Look lady,
I'm not from your guild;
I crossed the
mountains from Crimonia.
[gasps]
[ATOLA]
You're a real adventurer?
You serious?!
A child crossed the
mountains from Crimonia?
That's impossible!
Uh, it's not impossible;
I did it.
You've slayed a tiger wolf pack,
a goblin king,
and a black viper?
All of these quests
were done solo
and completed at 100 percent?!
We're honored to
have you! Welcome!
[YUNA] Wow. And just like that,
she's changed her whole tune.
Now then, you said you
wanted to donate some food?
How sweet, that'd be a big help!
All the guild members here
are doing the best they can,
but in the end, we just
don't have enough people
to help with collecting
food for everyone.
So you weren't lying
about being busy, then?
We've been working with
the adventurers we do have.
We're investigating the thieves,
researching ways
to kill the kraken,
and contacting the guilds
in nearby towns for back up.
I don't even have time to sleep.
Yeah, somehow I don't think
drinking alcohol is
gonna help with that.
[ATOLA chuckles]
This is bitter tea
to keep me awake!
That's so misleading!
Here I thought you were
some kinda weird lush,
but you're just
trying to stay awake?
So how much wolf meat
are you willing to donate?
Let's see. Would 5,000
wolves do the trick?
Oh, sure. Wait, 5,000?
Yeah, you got a good
place to store it all?
Uh, no, of course I don't!
No way we could handle
that many wolves at once.
[YUNA] Right. What about
a hundred wolves a day?
That works. But you sure, Yuna?
That means you'd
have to stay in Mileela
for quite some time.
It's cool;
I promised I would help.
Guess you could say the
ship's already sailed.
[gasps, giggles]
Thanks so much, Yuna!
I'll be right back!
[ATOLA]
Hey, I could use some help!
Someone came in
to donate a ton of food!
Rats, no one is back yet.
In that case,
I'll harvest them myself.
Whether it's a hundred or a
thousand wolves, bring it on!
[cackles]
Things are about
to get even busier!
[cackles]
[YUNA]
You really should sleep.
[ATOLA]
Thank you for waiting!
We'll begin to distribute
the free wolf meat now!
[CROWD cheers]
[GUILDSMAN 10B]
There's no need to push!
We have more than
enough for everyone!
[TOWNSWOMAN 10B]
We can get this much?
[TOWNSWOMAN 10C]
Thank you!
[TOWNSWOMAN 10D]
We're saved!
[DEIGHA]
How 'bout it, Little Bear?
The food we make in our
inn is pretty tasty, eh?
[YUNA]
Mm‐hm. It's delicious!
I'll have to thank Mister Damon
for recommending you to me.
Thank the adventurer's
guild, too.
We're extremely fortunate
that they distributed
free food to everybody.
Yeah, I agree.
Anyway, It's a pity I can't
make you some nice fresh fish,
especially seeing as you came
all the way from Crimonia.
Ain't that right, Anz?
For sure, that'd be a dream!
I bet she would like
the way we serve it.
All the fixings.
[YUNA]
Can you cook, too, Miss Anz?
Nah, I'm still in training.
But she's got
a ton of potential.
When it comes to seafood,
her skills are on par
with her old man's.
Yeah, right.
Whoa. I'd really love to try
some of it while I'm here.
Oh, come on. That's enough.
You guys are embarrassing me.
[YUNA]
I wanna eat seafood so bad.
[YUNA] Wow, the city
is a lot more lively
compared to when
I first arrived.
That's one problem solved.
But there's still a much
bigger problem to handle,
like the giant murder squid.
Jeez. That thing's
obscenely huge.
Kinda makes the black viper
look like a teensy worm.
[ATOLA]
There you are, Yuna!
[YUNA]
Hm? Atola?
It's so frustrating.
All we can really do
is wait for the stupid beast
to pack up and leave on its own.
[YUNA] Yeah, an ocean
monster is a real challenge.
There's no way to
fight it head on, you know?
We can't fly or walk on water.
We would have to
be excellent swimmers.
[YUNA]
A tough fight, even for me.
Well, we at least know
it has a weakness to fire.
[YUNA]
Hmm...
[YUNA] But my power's not very
strong once it's over water.
Guess I won't be much
help this time; I'm sorry.
Hey, no worries. You already
donated a ton of food to us;
we can't ask you
for more than that.
Although, we still
gotta do something
about those pesky thieves.
Right. I almost forgot
about the bandit problem.
I feel like we're real close
to finding some solid evidence.
Evidence?
[ATOLA]
Never mind, just rambling!
Now come on,
I'd like to get tomorrow's
batch of monsters from you
if that's okay?
[YUNA]
All right fine, no need to push.
[ATOLA] Hope another hundred
wolves isn't asking too much!
For real? You remember that
I originally offered you
5,000 wolves, don'tcha?
[ATOLA grunts]
Once again,
I can't believe how insanely
huge your item bag is.
[YUNA]
So, that's the story.
I'm probably gonna hang
around here for a little while.
[FINA] I see. Well,
please don't worry about us.
Everyone here is managing
just fine without you,
but you are very missed.
[YUNA grunts]
That makes me feel kinda lonely.
Oh, yeah, I know how you feel.
Because...
[YUNA]
Because?
[FINA] The truth is,
I'm feeling kinda lonely, too.
[gasps]
You know what?
Once things are
taken care of here,
as long as Miss Tiermina
and Mister Gentz allow it,
would you like to
visit Mileela with me?
[FINA] Yes! Then we could go
and look at the ocean together!
Sounds like we've got a plan.
Right, um, goodnight, then.
[BOTH whine]
[YUNA yawns]
What's wrong?
Gotta potty?
[YUNA]
Two intruders.
It looks like they're
heading for my room.
[KUMAKYU, KUMAYURU whimper]
[BOTH gasp]
You've discovered one of three
ways to get on my bad side.
Congrats.
One, interrupt me while I'm
eating something delicious.
Two, interrupt me while
I'm in the middle of gaming.
And then three,
interrupt me while I'm sleeping!
Bear punch, punch, punch,
punch, punch, punch punch!
[THIEVES groaning]
[THIEF 10A] No one told
us she was so strong!
This was just supposed to
be a simple, in‐and‐out job
to steal an item bag full of
monsters from a dumb girl.
So that's what you're
after, huh? Well?
Who gave you the orders then?
Hah! If you think we're
gonna be threatened
by some kid playing
dress up, think again!
Yeah. There's nothing
you can do to make us talk.
Oh? Let's find out.
[KUMAYURU, KUMAKYU gasp]
[THIEVES whimper]
[BOTH screaming]
[KUMAYURU, KUMAKYU roar]
[THIEVES]
B‐B‐B‐Bears!
These two aren't gonna talk,
so they're worthless.
It looks like dinner is served.
Wait! Hold on!
No way. See, here's the
thing, there's two of you
and I only need one of you to
talk, so who wants to die first?
[KUMAYURU, KUMAKYU]
Kuma!
[THIEVES yelp]
[THIEF 10B] Crap, please don't
eat us, we're ready to talk!
We're part of
the band of thieves
that's made this
area our home base!
Okay, I'm listening.
We were told that a girl
dressed like a bear
had an insane
amount of treasure.
Yeah, so our boss gave us
orders to try and rob you
while you were sleeping tonight!
[YUNA] Hmm. Good boys,
just one last question.
[THIEVES scream]
Where might your hideout be?
[THIEVES laughing]
It seems like nobody wants
to leave town lately.
My body's getting pretty stiff
from all the sitting around.
Aw, c'mon, you can't blame 'em!
If they try to leave,
then scary thieves
will take all their
fortunes and kill them!
Hiding in a town like cowards
is the only choice they have.
It's probably
about time to move on.
We're gonna do one last job
and then we're headed
for greener pastu‐‐
[GROUP gasps]
‐‐[THIEF BOSS 10A] What?!
‐‐[YUNA] I found you.
[GROUP]
A bear?
Hello, boys. I'm here to
make you pay for your crimes.
Huh?
You've made too many
people in this town suffer.
Oh, and let's not
forget about the crime of
you interrupting my sleep.
What the hell are
you talking about?!
Bad news, turns out this
bear is pissed tonight.
[KUMAYURU]
Kuma!